Update google-symptoms.md (#346)
cmu-delphi/delphi-epidata: docs/api/covidcast-signals/google-symptoms.md

---
title: Google Search Trends symptoms dataset
parent: Data Sources and Signals
grand_parent: COVIDcast Epidata API
---

# Google Symptoms
{: .no_toc}

> * **Source name:** `google-search-trends-symptoms-dataset`

Reviewer: this is a technical identifier in the API, used in communication from clients to the server (as opposed to e.g. a descriptive label). changing this would break many things.

Author: So please feel free to keep it as is.

Author: I believe I submitted an updated request

Reviewer: sounds good, thanks

* **First issued:** 30 November 2020
* **Number of data revisions since 19 May 2020:** 0
* **Date of last change:** Never
* **Available for:** county, MSA, HRR, state (see [geography coding docs](../covidcast_geography.md))
* **Time type:** day (see [date format docs](../covidcast_times.md))

> * **License:** To download or use the data, you must agree to the Google [Terms of Service](https://policies.google.com/terms)

Reviewer: @capnrefsmmat please review license change

Reviewer 2: The Google ToS are the terms listed in their GitHub repo for this data, so CC BY was never accurate. @shekelto is a Googler and tells us this is the right licensing to specify.

We do need to update `covidcast_licensing.md` to put this data into the "Republished Data" category, though

Reviewer: ok great, thanks for taking a look

* **Date of last change:** Never
* **Available for:** county, MSA, HRR, state (see [geography coding docs](../covidcast_geography.md))
* **Time type:** day (see [date format docs](../covidcast_times.md))

> * **License:** To download or use the data, you must agree to the Google [Terms of Service](https://policies.google.com/terms)

Reviewer 3: Is this text acceptable? we try to keep the header short, but if the extra language is required, we can make an exception.

```suggestion
* **License:** Google's [Terms of Service](https://policies.google.com/terms)
```

Author: Unfortunately it is required. We kept consistent messaging on the license across all of our surfaces.

 than one symptom. Currently, Google does not provide _intersection/union_
 data. Users should be careful when considering such signals.

## Properties and limitations 

> WTo learn more about the dataset, how it is generated it and its limitations, 

Reviewer: quick driveby: `WTo` -> `To`

Author: Fixed

> To learn more about the dataset, how it is generated it and its limitations, 
> read the [dataset documentation](https://storage.googleapis.com/gcp-public-data-symptom-search/COVID-19%20Search%20Trends%20symptoms%20dataset%20documentation%20.pdf).

Reviewer 3: It's good to link out for more details, but I don't like the idea of hiding the region non-comparability limitation in page 3 of an external link. We can put a summary here for responsible caveat emptor purposes and let people who need the specifics click out.

```suggestion
When daily volume in a region does not meet quality or privacy thresholds, set
by Google, no value will be reported.

Google uses differential privacy, which adds artificial noise to the raw
datasets to avoid identifying any individual persons without affecting the
quality of results.

Google normalizes and scales time series values to determine the relative
popularity of symptoms in searches within each geographical region individually.
This means that the resulting values of symptom popularity are **NOT**
comparable across geographic regions. 

More details about the limitations of this dataset are available in [Google's Search 
Trends symptoms dataset documentation](https://storage.googleapis.com/gcp-public-data-symptom-search/COVID-19%20Search%20Trends%20symptoms%20dataset%20documentation%20.pdf).
```

Author: I'm ok with this proposal and most of the text, but notice that when daily data is not available we are offering weekly data so perhaps it can be adjusted to be either:
"When daily volume in a region does not meet quality or privacy thresholds, set by Google, no daily value will be reported."
Or better:
"When daily volume in a region does not meet quality or privacy thresholds, set by Google, data will be provided at the weekly resolution. If the quality or privacy thresholds are not met at the weekly resolution, no data will be reported for the symptom in that region."

Reviewer 3: Yeah, but it won't show up in the COVIDcast data even if it's available in Google's weekly dataset. How about:

```suggestion
When daily volume in a region does not meet quality or privacy thresholds, set
by Google, no daily value is reported. Weekly data may be available from Google 
in these cases, but we do not yet support importation using weekly data.

Google uses differential privacy, which adds artificial noise to the raw
datasets to avoid identifying any individual persons without affecting the
quality of results.

Google normalizes and scales time series values to determine the relative
popularity of symptoms in searches within each geographical region individually.
This means that the resulting values of symptom popularity are **NOT**
comparable across geographic regions. 
More details about the limitations of this dataset are available in [Google's Search 
Trends symptoms dataset documentation](https://storage.googleapis.com/gcp-public-data-symptom-search/COVID-19%20Search%20Trends%20symptoms%20dataset%20documentation%20.pdf).
```

Author: Sounds good. 
Please hyperlink the words "available from Google" to https://pair-code.github.io/covid19_symptom_dataset.

## Lag and Backfill
Google does not currently update the search data daily, but usually twice a week.

> Each update will usually the coverage to within three days of the day of the update.

Reviewer: might be missing a word here: "Each update will usually the coverage". maybe "extend the coverage"?

Author: bring or extend would be great

As a result the delay can range from 3 to 10 days or even more. We check for

> updates every day and provide the most up-to-date data.

Reviewer 3: This section is listed in the template, but never made it into the page I guess? It would be nice to include a summary of what people are allowed to do with the data (who do they have to cite? can they sell anything they make using the data? do they have to share what they make under the same terms?) but not strictly necessary. 

Essentially we want people to be able to use this page to quickly evaluate whether this dataset is likely meet their needs, so that they can then decide whether it justifies reading a bunch of legal text.

```suggestion
updates every day and provide the most up-to-date data.

## Source and Licensing
This dataset is based on Google's [COVID-19 Search Trends symptoms dataset](http://goo.gle/covid19symptomdataset), which is licensed under Google's [Terms of Service](https://policies.google.com/terms).

To learn more about the source data, how it is generated and its limitations, 
read [Google's Search Trends symptoms dataset documentation](https://storage.googleapis.com/gcp-public-data-symptom-search/COVID-19%20Search%20Trends%20symptoms%20dataset%20documentation%20.pdf).
```
